Update e2e tests documentation (#191)
oasisprotocol/oasis-indexer: tests/README.md

# Oasis Indexer Tests

This directory contains, primarily, e2e tests for the Oasis Indexer. They have been organized as follows:
This directory contains tests for the Oasis Indexer. They have been organized as follows:

- `e2e/` contains tests that run against a fake blockchain (provided by `oasis-net-runner`) and a black-box indexer (i.e. only external APIs are accessed).
- `genesis/` contains tests that validate our database state is correct against `oasis-node` genesis state.
- `http/` contains tests that validate API endpoints behave as expected and return correct output.

## Setup for E2E Tests
## E2E Tests

To ensure that tests behave as expected, you should have either the local environment or Docker environment configured as per the [top-level README](../README.md#docker-development).
To ensure that tests behave as expected, you should have Docker environment configured as per the [top-level README](../README.md#docker-development).

> Then you can run these tests from the repository root with `make test-ci` or directly from this directory with `go test ./... -v`.

Author: Okay, fair. I see the `env HOST_UID=$(id -u) HOST_GID=$(id -g)` set up now to run e2e tests outside of Docker.

### Get docker containers with current code up&running
```sh
make docker &&

> { docker compose -f tests/e2e/docker-compose.e2e.yml down -t 0 || true; } &&

Reviewer: This should probably be a part of `clean-e2e`? With the addition of the `-v` switch you proposed.

#### Run the e2e tests

> You can run tests from the `oasis-indexer` container:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This line will clean up any prior runs and start a new run of tests inside the `oasis-indexer` container:
```

> env HOST_UID=$(id -u) HOST_GID=$(id -g) docker compose -f tests/e2e/docker-compose.e2e.yml up -d

Reviewer: Optional: Now that you've taken on creating higher-level makefile recipes, I would suggest renaming the old `test-e2e` to `test-e2e-local`, and creating a new `test-e2e` that consists of this line and line 32.

Then the steps for running e2e become pretty digestible: `make docker && make clean-e2e && make test-e2e`

Author: Used `start-e2e` to describe what you intend by `test-e2e` here I think.

Reviewer: I had a hard time explaining ... I pushed a commit with what I had in mind. Your call on whether you want to include it or go with what you prepared. I'm OK with both; the reason I prefer my edit is that the commands for running tests locally are then concise. (That's the commands I care about; it shouldn't take massive history/docs hunting and long copy-paste to run tests. In CI, everything is in code and hands-off so it's less of a problem if commands are a little longer there.)

## Setup for E2E Tests

> To ensure that tests behave as expected, you should have either Docker environment configured as per the [top-level README](../README.md#docker-development).

Reviewer: It would be nice to encourage a set of containers (I guess just the db, at this point) that's separate for e2e, as opposed to regular development. The e2e set always needs to start clean and can be killed right after the tests.

We could package the whole operation (build fresh docker image, bring up docker compose, exec into the indexer and run tests, tear down docker compose) into a single Makefile operation.

Author: I ack this nice to have.

Author: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/oasis-indexer/issues/202
